_Programs=<a href='#_Programs.Sec' class='definedterm'>Programs</a>

_Cloud=<a href='#_Cloud.Sec' class='definedterm'>Cloud</a>

_Machines=<a href='#_Machines.Sec' class='definedterm'>Machines</a>

_Appliances=<a href='#_Appliances.Sec' class='definedterm'>Appliances</a>

P1.Products=<a href='#P1.Products.Sec' class='definedterm'>{P1.Handle} Products</a>

_third_party=<a href='#_third_party.Sec' class='definedterm'>third party</a>

_Attachments=<a href='#_Attachments.Sec' class='definedterm'>Attachments</a>

_TDs=<a href='#_TDs.Sec' class='definedterm'>TDs</a>

_Agreement=<a href='#_Agreement.Sec' class='definedterm'>Agreement</a>

_this_Agreement=this <a href='#_this_Agreement.Sec' class='definedterm'>Agreement</a>

_Attachment=<a href='#_Attachment.Sec' class='definedterm'>Attachment</a>

_LI=<a href='#_LI.Sec' class='definedterm'>LI</a>

_Machine_Code=<a href='#_Machine_Code.Sec' class='definedterm'>Machine Code</a>

_Project_Materials=<a href='#_Project_Materials.Sec' class='definedterm'>Project Materials</a>

_Attachment_or_TD=<a href='#_Attachment_or_TD.Sec' class='definedterm'>Attachment or TD</a>

_Cloud_Services=<a href='#_Cloud_Services.Sec' class='definedterm'>Cloud Services</a>

_Cloud_Service=<a href='#_Cloud_Service.Sec' class='definedterm'>Cloud_Service</a>

_Service_Description=<a href='#_Service_Description.Sec' class='definedterm'>Service Description</a>

_TD=<a href='#_TD.Sec' class='definedterm'>TD</a>

_parties=<a href='#_parties.Sec' class='definedterm'>parties</a>

_party=<a href='#_party.Sec' class='definedterm'>party</a>

_the_Agreement=the <a href='#_the_Agreement.Sec' class='definedterm'>Agreement</a>

WAS=2017/03/31 : 1490950918


Ti=Client Relationship Agreement

//=here uses the phrase "Cloud and other Services" but elsewhere uses only "Cloud Services" and never "Services".Perhaps should be "Cloud Services and other services  

//Both "this Agreement" and "the Agreement" are used.

0.sec=Using this agreement, {P2.Handle} may order {_Programs}, {_Cloud} and other Services, {_Machines} and {_Appliances} (collectively {P1.Products}) and {_third_party} products and services (Non-{P1.Products}) available from {P1.Handle}. Details regarding products, offerings or orders are provided in {_Attachments} and Transaction Documents ({_TDs}). This agreement and applicable {_Attachments} and {_TDs} are the complete agreement ({_Agreement}) regarding transactions under {_this_Agreement}.

1.Ti={_Programs}

1.1.sec=A {_Program} is an {P1.Handle}-branded computer program and related material available for license from {P1.Handle} subject to the payment of charges. {_Program} details are described in an {_Attachment} called License Information ({_LI}). {_Programs} do not include {_Machine_Code} or {_Project_Materials}. {_Programs} are copyrighted and licensed (not sold). When {P1.Handle} accepts an order for a {_Program}, {P1.Handle} grants {P2.Handle} a nonexclusive license to: a) use the {_Program} only up to its authorizations and subject to its {_LI}; b) make and install copies to support such authorized use; and c) make a backup copy. {_Programs} may be used by {P2.Handle}, its authorized employees and contractors only within {P2.Handle}’s Enterprise, and not to provide hosting or timesharing services to any {_third_party}. {P2.Handle} may not sublicense, assign, or transfer the license for any {_Program}. Additional rights may be available from {P1.Handle} for additional fees or under different terms. {P1.Handle} does not grant unrestricted rights to use the {_Program} nor has {P2.Handle} paid for all of the economic value of the {_Program}. Certain {_Programs} may contain {_third_party} code licensed under separate agreements identified in the {_LI}.

1.2.0.sec=The license granted for a {_Program} is subject to {P2.Handle}:

1.2.1.sec=a. reproducing copyright notices and other markings;

1.2.2.sec=b. ensuring anyone who uses the {_Program} does so only for {P2.Handle}’s authorized use and complies with the license;

1.2.3.sec=c. not reverse assembling, reverse compiling, translating, or reverse engineering the {_Program}; and

1.2.4.sec=d. not using any of the elements of the {_Program} or related licensed material separately from the {_Program}. The metric applicable to a {_Program} license is specified in an {_Attachment_or_TD}. All licenses on a server or capacity based metric must be licensed to the full capacity of the server on which the {_Program} is installed, unless subcapacity usage is available from {P1.Handle} and {P2.Handle} complies with the applicable sub-capacity requirements.

1.2.=[G/Z/ol-a/s4]

1.=[G/Z/ol/s2]

2.Ti=Services - {_Cloud_Services}

2.1.sec=A {_Cloud_Service} is an {P1.Handle} branded offering hosted or managed by {P1.Handle} and made available via a network. Each {_Cloud_Service} is described in an {_Attachment_or_TD} called a {_Service_Description}. {_Cloud_Services} are designed to be available 24/7, subject to maintenance. {P2.Handle} will be notified of scheduled maintenance. Technical support and service level commitments, if applicable, are specified in an {_Attachment_or_TD}.

2.2.sec=When {P1.Handle} accepts {P2.Handle}’s order, {P1.Handle} provides {P2.Handle} the authorizations specified in the {_TD}. The term, including any renewal term, for a {_Cloud_Service} is described in an {_Attachment_or_TD}.

2.3.sec={P2.Handle} may access a {_Cloud_Service} only to the extent of authorizations acquired by {P2.Handle}. {P2.Handle} is responsible for use of {_Cloud_Services} by any user who accesses the {_Cloud_Service} with {P2.Handle}’s account credentials. A {_Cloud_Service} may not be used in any jurisdiction for unlawful, obscene, offensive or fraudulent content or activity, such as advocating or causing harm, interfering with or violating the integrity or security of a network or system, evading filters, sending unsolicited, abusive or deceptive messages, viruses or harmful code, or violating {_third_party} rights. If there is a complaint or notice of violation, use may be suspended until resolved, and terminated if not resolved promptly. Unless expressly provided in a {_TD}, {P2.Handle} is not authorized to use a {_Cloud_Service} to provide hosting or timesharing services to any {_third_party}.

2.=[G/Z/ol/s3]

3.Ti=Data Protection for {_Cloud_Services}

3.1.sec=Each {_Cloud_Service} is designed to protect content that {P2.Handle} inputs into the {_Cloud_Service}. Except for account data, {P2.Handle} is the sole controller for any personal data included in the content, and appoints {P1.Handle} as a processor to process such personal data (as those terms are defined in EU Directive 95/46/EC). Except as otherwise specified in an {_Attachment_or_TD}, {P1.Handle} will treat content as confidential by not disclosing content other than to {P1.Handle} employees and contractors for use only to the extent needed to deliver the {_Cloud_Service}. {P1.Handle} will return or destroy it upon the expiration or cancellation of the {_Cloud_Service}, or earlier upon {P2.Handle}’s request. {P1.Handle} may charge for certain activities performed at {P2.Handle}’s request (such as delivering content in a specific format). Content is not subject to any separate confidentiality agreement between the {_parties}.

3.2.sec=The {_Attachment_or_TD} for each {_Cloud_Service} describes the security functions and features of the {_Cloud_Service}. By using the {_Cloud_Service} {P2.Handle} acknowledges that it meets {P2.Handle}’s requirements and processing instructions. {P1.Handle} will provide {P2.Handle} notice of any unauthorized {_third_party} access to {P2.Handle}’s content of which {P1.Handle} becomes aware and will use reasonable efforts to remediate identified security vulnerabilities. If {P2.Handle}’s content is lost or damaged, {P1.Handle} will assist {P2.Handle} in restoring it to the {_Cloud_Service} from {P2.Handle}’s last available backup copy in compatible format. {P1.Handle} may use processors and subprocessors (including personnel and resources) in locations worldwide to deliver the {_Cloud_Services}. {P1.Handle} may transfer {P2.Handle}’s personal data across country borders including outside the European Economic Area (EEA). A list of countries where content may be processed for a {_Cloud_Service} is available at www.ibm.com/cloud/datacenters or as described in the {_Attachment_or_TD}. A list of subprocessors is available upon request.

3.3.sec=Upon request by either {_party}, {P1.Handle}, {P2.Handle} or their affiliates will enter into additional agreements required by law for the protection of personal data included in content such as the standard unmodified EU Model Clauses agreement pursuant to EC Decision 2010/87/EU with optional clauses removed. The {_parties} agree (and will procure that their respective affiliates agree) that such additional agreements will be subject to the terms of {_the_Agreement}.

3.4.sec={P1.Handle}, its affiliates, and their {_third_party} suppliers may process, store, and use account data wherever they do business to enable product features, administer use, personalize experience, and otherwise support or improve use of the {_Cloud_Service}. Account data is all information (which may be further described in an {_Attachment_or_TD}) about {P2.Handle} or its users provided to or collected by {P1.Handle} (including through tracking and other technologies, such as cookies) which is processed in accordance with the {P1.Handle} Online Privacy Statement available at www.ibm.com/privacy/details/us/en/.

3.=[G/Z/ol/s4]

4.Ti=Changes to {_Cloud_Services}

{P1.Handle} may modify a {_Cloud_Service}, without degrading its functionality or security features. Any change that affects the commercial terms (e.g. charges) of the {_Cloud_Service} will not be effective until the next agreed renewal or extension. {P1.Handle} may withdraw a {_Cloud_Service} on 12 months’ notice, unless otherwise stated in an {_Attachment_or_TD}. {P1.Handle} will either continue to provide the {_Cloud_Service} for the remainder of {P2.Handle}’s unexpired term or work with {P2.Handle} to migrate to another {P1.Handle} Service.

5.Ti=Suspension of {_Cloud_Services}

{P1.Handle} may suspend, revoke or limit {P2.Handle}’s use of a {_Cloud_Service} if {P1.Handle} determines there is a material breach of {P2.Handle}’s obligations, a security breach, or violation of law. Charges will continue to accrue for the {_Cloud_Service} during any suspension. If the cause of the suspension can reasonably be remedied, {P1.Handle} will provide notice of the actions {P2.Handle} must take to reinstate the {_Cloud_Service}. If {P2.Handle} fails to take such actions within a reasonable time, {P1.Handle} may terminate the {_Cloud_Service}.

6.Ti=Services – Other Services

{P1.Handle} provides consulting, installation, customization and configuration, maintenance, and other services as detailed in an {_Attachment_or_TD}. {P2.Handle} will own the copyright in works of authorship that {P1.Handle} develops for {P2.Handle} under a Statement of Work ({_SOW}) ({_Project_Materials}). {_Project_Materials} exclude works of authorship delivered to {P2.Handle}, but not created, under the {_SOW}, and any modifications or enhancements of such works made under the {_SOW} (Existing Works). Some Existing Works are subject to a separate license agreement (Existing Licensed Works). A {_Program} is an example of an Existing Licensed Work and is subject to the {_Program} terms. {P1.Handle} grants {P2.Handle} an irrevocable (subject to {P2.Handle}’s payment obligations), nonexclusive, worldwide license to use, execute, reproduce, display, perform and prepare derivatives of Existing Works that are not Existing Licensed Works. {P1.Handle} retains an irrevocable, nonexclusive, worldwide, paid-up license to use, execute, reproduce, display, perform, sublicense, distribute, and prepare derivative works of {_Project_Materials}. Either {_party} may terminate a Service if a material breach concerning the Service is not remedied within a reasonable time. {P1.Handle} will provide at least 90 days’ notice prior to withdrawal of Service. {P2.Handle} will pay charges for Services provided through the effective date of termination. If {P2.Handle} terminates without cause or {P1.Handle} terminates for breach, {P2.Handle} will meet all minimum commitments and pay termination or adjustment charges specified in the {_SOW} or {_TD} and any additional costs {P1.Handle} reasonably incurs because of early termination, such as costs relating to subcontracts or relocation. {P1.Handle} will take reasonable steps to mitigate any such additional costs.

7.Ti={_Machines} and {_Appliances}

A {_Machine} is an {P1.Handle}-branded device including its features, upgrades, and accessories. An {_Appliance} is a {_Program} and {_Machine} combination designed for a particular function. Unless otherwise provided, terms that apply to a {_Program} apply to the {_Program} component of an {_Appliance} and terms that apply to a {_Machine} apply to the {_Machine} component of an {_Appliance}. {P2.Handle} may not use or transfer an {_Appliance}’s {_Program} component independently of the {_Appliance}.

When {P1.Handle} accepts {P2.Handle}’s order, {P1.Handle} transfers title to {_Machines} and non-{P1.Handle} machines to {P2.Handle} or {P2.Handle}’s lessor upon payment of all amounts due, except in the United States where title transfers upon shipment. {P1.Handle} bears risk of loss until delivery to the carrier for shipment. {P1.Handle} pays for insurance on {P2.Handle}’s behalf until delivery to {P2.Handle}’s location. {P2.Handle} must report any loss in writing to {P1.Handle} within 10 business days of delivery and follow the claim procedure. Additional charges may apply for {P1.Handle} installation more than six months after shipment. {P2.Handle} must follow instructions provided to install {P2.Handle} set up {_Machines}.

{_Machines} and parts removed or exchanged for upgrade, warranty service, or maintenance are {P1.Handle} property and must be returned to {P1.Handle} promptly. A replacement assumes the warranty or maintenance status of the replaced part. A {_Machine} may include parts that are not new and in some instances {_Machines} may have been previously installed. Regardless, {P1.Handle}’s warranty terms apply. {P2.Handle} will promptly install or allow {P1.Handle} to install mandatory engineering changes. {P2.Handle} may only acquire {_Machines} for use within {P2.Handle}’s Enterprise in the country where acquired and not for resale, lease, or transfer. Lease-back financing is permitted.

8.Ti={_Machine_Code} and Built in Capacity

{_Machines} may include {_Machine_Code} ({_MC}) and Built in Capacity (BIC). {_MC} is computer instructions, fixes, replacements and related materials, such as data and passwords relied on, provided, used with or generated by {_MC}, that permit the operation of the machine's processors, storage or other functionality. {_MC} is copyrighted and licensed (not sold). {P1.Handle} only provides copies, fixes or replacements for {_MC} for {_Machines} under warranty or {P1.Handle} maintenance, or under a separate written agreement which may be subject to additional charges. {P2.Handle} agrees that all copies, fixes or replacements for {_MC} will be obtained solely as authorized by {P1.Handle}. {P1.Handle} grants {P2.Handle} a nonexclusive license to use {_MC} only (i) on the {_Machine} for which {P1.Handle} provided it, and (ii) to access and use BIC only to the extent paid for by {P2.Handle}, activated by {P1.Handle} and subject to the {_Attachment} called {P1.Handle} Authorized Use Table for {_Machines} (AUT) available from {P1.Handle} and at http://www.ibm.com/systems/support/machine_warranties/m achine_code/aut.html. BIC is computing resource (e.g., processors, storage and other functionality) that {P1.Handle} provides for a {_Machine}. Use of BIC may be restricted by contract, technological or other measures. {P2.Handle} agrees to {P1.Handle}'s implementation of technological and other measures that restrict, monitor and report on use of BIC or {_MC}, and to install any changes {P1.Handle} provides. {P2.Handle} may not alter, reverse assemble, reverse compile, translate or reverse engineer the {_MC}, or circumvent or interfere, by any means, with {P1.Handle}’s contractual, technological or other measures that restrict, monitor or report on use of BIC or {_MC}. While {P2.Handle}’s license to {_MC} is in effect, {P2.Handle} may transfer possession of the entire {_MC} along with all of {P2.Handle}’s rights and obligations only with corresponding transfer of the {_Machine} and a hardcopy of this {_MC} license, and only if the transferee agrees to the terms of this {_MC} license. {P2.Handle}’s {_MC} license terminates immediately upon transfer. {_This_Agreement} governs {_MC} and BIC on {_Machines} acquired from another {_party}. Use of BIC in excess of authorizations from {P1.Handle} is subject to additional charges.

9.Ti=Warranties and Post Warranty Support

{P1.Handle} warrants that {_Programs} used in their specified operating environment conform to their official published specifications. The warranty period for a {_Program} (not the {_Program} component of an {_Appliance}) is one year, or the initial license term if less than one year, unless another warranty period is specified in an {_Attachment_or_TD}. During the {_Program} warranty period, {P1.Handle} provides Software Subscription and Support (S&S), entitling {P2.Handle} to defect correction information, restrictions, bypasses, and new releases and versions {P1.Handle} makes generally available. Unless {P2.Handle} elects to discontinue S&S, annual S&S automatically renews at then-current charges until S&S for a version or release is withdrawn. If {P2.Handle} elects to continue S&S for a {_Program} at a designated {P2.Handle} site, {P2.Handle} must maintain S&S for all uses and installations of the {_Program} at that site.

{P1.Handle} warrants that it provides {_Cloud} and other Services using commercially reasonable care and skill in accordance with the applicable {_Attachment_or_TD}, including any completion criteria, and that {_Project_Materials} will comply with the {_Attachment_or_TD} at the time of delivery. The warranty for a Service ends when the Service ends.

{P1.Handle} warrants that {_Machines} used in their specified operating environment conform to their official published specifications. For a {_Machine} or {_Appliance}, the warranty period is specified in the {_Attachment_or_TD}. During its warranty period, {P1.Handle} will repair or exchange the {_Machine} without charge, as specified in the Attachment. Warranty does not apply to {_Machines} that {P2.Handle} did not allow {P1.Handle} to install as required by the {_TD}. {P2.Handle} may purchase warranty service upgrades and post warranty support where available. For {_Appliances}, post warranty support includes maintenance and S&S.

If a Machine or {_Program} does not function as warranted during its warranty period and {P1.Handle} is unable to repair or replace it with a functional equivalent, {P2.Handle} may return it to {P1.Handle} for a refund of the amount {P2.Handle} paid (for recurring charges, up to twelve months’ charges) and {P2.Handle}’s license or right to use it terminates.

{P1.Handle} does not warrant uninterrupted or error-free operation of an {P1.Product} or that {P1.Handle} will correct all defects or prevent {_third_party} disruptions or unauthorized {_third_party} access to an {P1.Product}. These warranties are the exclusive warranties from {P1.Handle} and replace all other warranties, including the implied warranties or conditions of satisfactory quality, merchantability, non-infringement, and fitness for a particular purpose. {P1.Handle} warranties will not apply if there has been misuse, modification, damage not caused by {P1.Handle}, failure to comply with instructions provided by {P1.Handle}, or if otherwise stated in an Attachment or {_TD}. Non{P1.Products} are sold under {_the_Agreement} as-is, without warranties of any kind. {_Third_parties} may provide their own warranties to {P2.Handle}.

10.Ti=Charges, Taxes, Payment and Verification

{P2.Handle} agrees to pay all applicable charges specified by {P1.Handle}, charges for use in excess of authorizations, any customs or other duty, tax, levy, or fee imposed by any authority resulting from {P2.Handle}’s acquisitions under {_the_Agreement}, and any late payment fees. Amounts are due upon receipt of the invoice and payable within 30 days of the invoice date to an account specified by {P1.Handle}. Prepaid Services must be used within the applicable period. {P1.Handle} does not give credits or refunds for any prepaid, one-time charges, or other charges already due or paid. {P2.Handle} agrees to: i) pay withholding tax directly to the appropriate government entity where required by law; ii) furnish a tax certificate evidencing such payment to {P1.Handle}; iii) pay {P1.Handle} only the net proceeds after tax; and iv) fully cooperate with {P1.Handle} in seeking a waiver or reduction of such taxes and promptly complete and file all relevant documents. Where taxes are based upon the location(s) receiving the benefit of the {_Cloud_Service}, {P2.Handle} has an ongoing obligation to notify {P1.Handle} of such location(s) if different than {P2.Handle}’s business address listed in the applicable Attachment or {_TD}.

{P1.Handle} may change recurring charges, labor rates and minimum commitments on three months' notice. A change applies on the invoice date or the first day of the charging period on or after the effective date {P1.Handle} specifies in the notice. {P1.Handle} may change one-time charges without notice. However, a change to a one-time charge does not apply to an order if i) {P1.Handle} receives the order before the announcement date of the increase and ii) within three months after {P1.Handle}’s receipt of the order, the product is shipped or made available to {P2.Handle}.

{P2.Handle} will i) maintain, and provide upon request, records, system tools output, and access to {P2.Handle}’s premises, as reasonably necessary for {P1.Handle} and its independent auditor to verify {P2.Handle}’s compliance with {_the_Agreement}, including {_MC} and {_Program} licenses and metrics, such as subcapacity usage, and ii) promptly order and pay for required entitlements (including associated S&S or maintenance) at {P1.Handle}’s then current rates and for other charges and liabilities determined as a result of such verification, as {P1.Handle} specifies in an invoice. These compliance verification obligations remain in effect during the term of any {_TD} and for two years thereafter.

11.Ti=Liability and Indemnity

{P1.Handle}’s entire liability for all claims related to {_the_Agreement} will not exceed the amount of any actual direct damages incurred by {P2.Handle} up to the amounts paid (if recurring charges, up to 12 months’ charges apply) for the product or service that is the subject of the claim, regardless of the basis of the claim. This limit applies collectively to {P1.Handle}, its subsidiaries, contractors, and suppliers. {P1.Handle} will not be liable for special, incidental, exemplary, indirect, or economic consequential damages, or lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings. The following amounts, if a {_party} is legally liable for them, are not subject to the above cap: i) {_third_party} payments referred to in the paragraph below; ii) damages for body injury (including death); iii) damages to real property and tangible personal property; and iv) damages that cannot be limited under applicable law.

If a {_third_party} asserts a claim against {P2.Handle} that an {P1.Product} acquired under {_the_Agreement} infringes a patent or copyright, {P1.Handle} will defend {P2.Handle} against that claim and pay amounts finally awarded by a court against {P2.Handle} or included in a settlement approved by {P1.Handle}, provided that {P2.Handle} promptly (i) notifies {P1.Handle} in writing of the claim, (ii) supplies information requested by {P1.Handle}, and (iii) allows {P1.Handle} to control, and reasonably cooperates in, the defense and settlement, including mitigation efforts.

{P1.Handle} has no responsibility for claims based, in whole or part, on Non-{P1.Products}, items not provided by {P1.Handle}, or any violation of law or {_third_party} rights caused by {P2.Handle}’s content, materials, designs, specifications, or use of a noncurrent version or release of an {P1.Product} when an infringement claim could have been avoided by using a current version or release.

12.Ti=Termination

Either {_party} may terminate this agreement i) without cause on at least one month’s notice to the other after expiration or termination of its obligations under {_the_Agreement}; or ii) immediately for cause if the other is in material breach of {_the_Agreement}, provided the one who is not complying is given notice and reasonable time to comply. Failure to pay is a material breach. Any terms that by their nature extend beyond {_the_Agreement} termination remain in effect until fulfilled, and apply to successors and assignees. Termination of this agreement does not terminate {_TDs}, and provisions of this agreement and Attachments as they relate to such {_TDs} remain in effect until fulfilled or otherwise terminated in accordance with their terms. {P1.Handle} may terminate {P2.Handle}’s license to use a {_Program} or {_MC} if {P2.Handle} fails to comply with {_the_Agreement}. {P2.Handle} will promptly destroy all copies of the {_Program} or {_MC} after either {_party} has terminated the license.

13.Ti=Governing Laws and Geographic Scope

Each {_party} is responsible for complying with: i) laws and regulations applicable to its business and content, and ii) import, export and economic sanction laws and regulations, including those of the United States that prohibit or restrict the export, re-export, or transfer of products, technology, services or data, directly or indirectly, to or for certain countries, end uses or end users. {P2.Handle} is responsible for its use of {P1.Handle} and Non-{P1.Products}.

Both {_parties} agree to the application of the laws of the country where the transaction is performed (or for {_Cloud_Services}, the laws of the state of New York, United States, to {_the_Agreement}, without regard to conflict of law principles. The rights and obligations of each {_party} are valid only in the country where the transaction is performed or, if {P1.Handle} agrees, the country where the product is placed in productive use, except all licenses are valid as specifically granted. If any provision of {_the_Agreement} is invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions remain in full force and effect. Nothing in {_the_Agreement} affects statutory rights of consumers that cannot be waived or limited by contract. The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods does not apply to transactions under {_the_Agreement}.

14.Ti=General

{_Parties} will not disclose confidential information without a separate, signed confidentiality agreement. If confidential information is exchanged in connection with {_the_Agreement}, the applicable confidentiality agreement is incorporated into, and subject to, this agreement.

{P2.Handle} accepts an Attachment or {_TD} by ordering, enrolling, using, or making a payment for, the product, offering or service. Since this agreement may apply to many future orders, {P1.Handle} may modify this agreement by providing {P2.Handle} at least three months’ written notice. Changes are not retroactive; they apply, as of the effective date, only to new orders, ongoing services that do not expire, and renewals. For transactions with a defined renewable contract period, {P2.Handle} may request that {P1.Handle} defer the change effective date until the end of the current contract period. {P2.Handle} accepts changes by placing new orders or continuing use after the change effective date or allowing transactions to renew after receipt of the change notice. Except as provided above, all changes to the agreement must be in writing accepted by both {_parties}. If there is a conflict, an Attachment or {_TD} prevails over the terms of this agreement. {P1.Handle} is an independent contractor, not {P2.Handle}’s agent, joint venturer, partner, or fiduciary, and does not undertake to perform any of {P2.Handle}’s regulatory obligations, or assume any responsibility for {P2.Handle}’s business or operations. Each {_party} is responsible for determining the assignment of its personnel and contractors, and for their direction, control, and compensation.

{P1.Handle} maintains a robust set of business conduct and related guidelines covering conflicts of interest, market abuse; antibribery & corruption; and fraud. {P1.Handle} and its personnel comply with such policies and require contractors to have similar policies.

{P1.Handle} Business Partners are independent from {P1.Handle} and unilaterally determine their prices and terms. {P1.Handle} is not responsible for their actions, omissions, statements, or offerings.

{P2.Handle} is responsible for obtaining all necessary permissions to use, provide, store and process content in {_Cloud}, other Services, maintenance, or {_Program} support, and grants {P1.Handle} permission to do the same. {P2.Handle} is responsible for adequate content back-up. Some of {P2.Handle}’s content may be subject to governmental regulation or may require security measures beyond those specified by {P1.Handle} for an offering. {P2.Handle} will not input or provide such content unless {P1.Handle} has first agreed in writing to implement additional required security measures.

{P1.Handle} and its affiliates, and their subcontractors, may process and store business contact information of {P2.Handle} personnel in connection with the performance of {_this_Agreement} wherever they do business. {P1.Handle} may use personnel and resources in locations worldwide and {_third_party} suppliers to support the delivery of products and services.

Neither {_party} may assign {_the_Agreement}, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of the other. Assignment of {P1.Handle} rights to receive payments and by {P1.Handle} in conjunction with the sale of the portion of {P1.Handle}’s business that includes a product or service is not restricted.

{_The_Agreement} applies to {P1.Handle} and {P2.Handle} (the signatories below) and their respective Enterprise companies who avail themselves of {_the_Agreement}. The signatories shall coordinate the activities of Enterprise companies under {_the_Agreement}. Enterprise companies include (i) companies within the same country that {P2.Handle} or {P1.Handle} control (by owning greater than 50% of the voting shares), and (ii) any other entity that controls, is controlled by or is under common control as {P2.Handle} or {P1.Handle} and has signed a participation Attachment.

All notices under {_the_Agreement} must be in writing and sent to the address below, unless a {_party} designates in writing a different address. The {_parties} consent to the use of electronic means and facsimile transmissions for communications as a signed writing. Any reproduction of {_the_Agreement} made by reliable means is considered an original. {_The_Agreement} supersedes any course of dealing, discussions or representations between the {_parties}. No right or cause of action for any {_third_party} is created by {_the_Agreement} or any transaction under it. Neither {_party} will bring a legal action arising out of or related to {_the_Agreement} more than two years after the cause of action arose. Neither {_party} is responsible for failure to fulfill its nonmonetary obligations due to causes beyond its control. Each {_party} will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims the other has not met its obligations. Where approval, acceptance, consent, access, cooperation or similar action by either {_party} is required, such action will not be unreasonably delayed or withheld.


00.0.sec=Agreed to:

00.1.{P2.Handle}:

00.2.{P1.Handle}:

P1.Handle=<a href="#0.sec">IBM</a>

P2.Handle=<a href="#0.sec">Client</a>

_Program=<a href="#1.Sec">Program</a>
  
=[G/Z/ol/14]
  
